- Why are we working on
AI in the first place?
I'm just gonna arbitrarily pick Jared.
Why are you doing AI at all?
- I mean, I was working
on physics for a long time
and I got bored,
and I wanted to hang out
with more of my friends,
so yeah.
- Yeah, I thought Dario pitched you on it.
- I don't think I explicitly
pitched you at any point.
I just kind of, like, showed
you results of, like, AI models
and then was trying to
make the point that, like,
they're very general and they
don't only apply to one thing
and then just at some point,
after I showed you enough
of them, you were like,
"Oh yeah, that seems like it's right."
- How long had you been
a professor before?
Like, when you started?
- I think like six years or so.
I think I helped recruit Sam.
- I talked to you and you were like,
"I think I've created a good bubble here-"
- Yeah.
- "And like my goal is
to get Tom to come back."
That worked.
- And did you meet everyone through Google
when you were doing the
interpretability stuff, Chris?
- No.
So I guess
I actually met a bunch
of you when I was 19
and I was visiting-
- Oh yeah?
- In the Bay Area for the first time.
So I guess I met Dario and Jared then,
and I guess they were postdocs,
which I thought was very cool at the time.
And then I was working at
Google Brain and Dario joined
and we sat side by side,
actually, for a while.
We had desks beside each other,
and I worked with Tom there as well.
And then, of course,
I got to work with all of you
at OpenAI when I went there.
- Yeah.
- So I guess I've known
a lot of you for, like,
more than a decade, which is kind of wild.
- If I remember correctly,
I met Dario in 2015 when I went
to a conference you were at
and I tried to interview
you and Google PR said
I would've read all of
your research papers
that you needed to-
- Uh, yeah, I think I was writing
"Concrete problems in AI safety"
when I was at Google.
- I think you wrote a
story about that paper.
- I did.
- I remember right before
I started working with you,
I think you invited me to the office
and I got to like come chat
and just like tell me everything about AI.
And you like explained,
I remember afterwards being like,
"Oh, I guess this stuff is
much more serious than I realized.
And you were, like,
probably explaining
the big blob of compute
and like parameter counting
and how many neurons are in
the brain and everything.
- And I feel like Dario often
has that effect on people;
"This is much more
serious than I realized."
- Yeah, I'm the bringer of happy tidings.
- But I remember when we were at OpenAI
when there was the scaling law stuff
and just making things bigger
and it started to feel
like it was working,
and then it kind of kept on eerily working
on a bunch of different projects,
which I think is how we all ended up
working closely together,
'cause it was first GPT-2
and then scaling laws and
GPT-3 and we ended up-
- Yeah, we were the blob of people
that were making things work.
- Yeah.
- That's right.
- I think we're also excited about safety,
'cause in that era there
was sort of this idea that
AI would become very powerful
but, like, potentially not
understand human values
or not even be able to
communicate with us.
And so I think we were
all pretty excited about
language models as a
way to kind of guarantee
that AI systems would have to understand
kind of implicit knowledge that-
- And RL from human feedback
on top of language models,
which was the whole reason
for scaling these models up
was that, you know, the
models weren't smart enough
to do RLHF on top of,
so that's the kind of intertwinement of
safety and scaling of the
models that we, you know,
still believe in today.
- Yeah, I think there was
also an element of like
the scaling work was done
as part of the safety team
that, you know-
- Mm-hmm.
- Dario started at OpenAI,
because we thought that
forecasting AI trends
was important to be able
to have us taken seriously
and take safety seriously as a problem.
- Correct.
- Yeah, and we took,
I remember being in
some airport in England
sampling from GPT-2 and using
it to write fake news articles
and Slacking Dario and being like,
"Oh, this stuff actually works.
It might have, like,
huge policy implications."
I think Dario said something like, "Yes."
His typical way.
But then we worked on that a bunch
as well as the release stuff,
which was kind of wild.
- Yeah, I remember the release stuff.
I think that was when we first
started working together.
- Yeah.
- That was a fun time.
- Yes.
- The GPT-2 launch.
- Yeah.
But I think it was good for
us 'cause we did a kind of
slightly strange,
safety-oriented thing altogether,
and then we ended up doing Anthropic,
which is a much larger, slightly strange,
safety-oriented thing-
- That's right.
- Together.
- So I guess just like going
back to the concrete problems,
'cause I remember,
so I joined OpenAI in like 2016,
like one of the first
20 employees or whatever
with you, Dario,
and I remember at that time
the concrete problems in AI safety
seemed like it was like the
first mainstream AI safety-
- Yes.
- Paper, I guess?
I don't really know if I ever
asked you what the story was
for how that came about.
- Chris knows the story,
'cause he was involved in it.
I think, you know, we were both at Google.
I forget what other
project I was working on,
but like with many things,
it was my attempt to kind
of procrastinate from
whatever other project I was working on
that I've now
completely forgotten what it was.
But I think it was like Chris
and I decided to write down
what are some open problems
in terms of AI safety,
and also AI safety you
usually talked about
in this very kind of
abstruse, abstract way.
Can we kind of ground it in the ML
that was going on at the time?
I mean, now there's been, like,
you know, six, seven years
of work in that vein,
but it was almost a
strange idea at the time.
- Yeah, I think there's a
way in which it was almost a
kind of political project,
where at the time,
a lot of people didn't
take safety seriously.
So I think that there
was sort of this goal
to collate a list of problems
that sort of people
agreed were reasonable,
often already existed in literature,
and then get a bunch of people
across different institutions
who are credible to be authors.
And like, I remember I
had this whole long period
where I just talked to 20
different researchers at Brain
to build support for publishing the paper.
Like in some ways,
if you look at it in terms of the problems
and a lot of things that emphasized,
I think it, you know,
hasn't held up that well
in that it's, you know,
I think it's not really
the right problems,
but I think if you sort
of see it instead as
a consensus-building exercise,
that there's something here that is real
and that is worth taking seriously,
then it was a pretty important moment.
- I mean, you end up in this
really weird sci-fi world
where I remember at
the start of Anthropic,
we were talking about constitutional AI
and I think Jared said,
"Oh, we're just gonna write a constitution
for a language model
and that'll change all of its behavior."
And I remember that
sounded incredibly crazy
at the time,
but why did you guys
think that was gonna work?
Because I remember that was
one of the first early, like,
big research ideas we had at the company.
- Yeah, I mean,
I think Dario and I had
talked about it for a while.
I guess I think simple things
just work really, really well in AI.
And so like, I think the
first versions of that
were quite complicated,
but then we kind of like
whittled away into, like,
just use the fact that
AI systems are good at
solving multiple choice exams
and give them a prompt that tells them
what they're looking for and
that was kind of a lot of
what we needed.
- And then we were able to just
write down these principles.
- I mean, it goes back to,
like, the big blob of compute
or the bitter lesson or
the scaling hypothesis.
If you can identify, you know,
something that you can
give the AI data for
and that's kind of a clear target,
you'll get it to do it.
So like here's this set of instructions,
here's this set of principles.
AI language models can like
read that set of principles
and they can compare it to the behavior
that they themselves are engaging in.
And so like you've got
your training target there,
so once you know that,
I think my view and Jared's view is
there's a way to get it to work;
you just have to fiddle
with enough of the details.
- Yeah.
I think it was always weird for me,
especially in these early eras,
'cause like I was in physics
and then coming from physics,
and I think now we forget about this
'cause everyone's excited about AI,
but like, I remember
talking to Dario about
concrete problems and other things,
and I just got the sense
that AI researchers
were very, very kind of
psychologically damaged
by the AI winter
where they just kind of felt like
having really ambitious
ideas or ambitious visions
was, like, very disallowed.
And that's kind of how I imagine it was
in terms of talking about safety.
In order to care about safety,
you have to believe that AI
systems could actually be
really powerful and really useful,
and I think that there
was kind of a prohibition
against being ambitious.
- And I think
one of the benefits is that
physicists are very arrogant
and so they're constantly
doing really ambitious things
and talking about things
in terms of grand schemes,
and so-
- Yeah.
- I mean, I think that's definitely true.
Like I remember in 2014,
it was like there were
just like, I don't know,
there were just some things
you couldn't say, right?
But I actually think it was
kind of an extension of problems
that exist across academia,
other than maybe theoretical physics,
where they've kind of evolved into
very risk-averse institutions
for a number of reasons.
And even the industrial parts of AI
had kind of transplanted or
fork lifted that mentality.
And it took a long time.
I think it took it until like 2022
to get out of that mentality.
- There's a weird thing about like,
what does it mean to be
conservative and respectful,
where you might think like,
one version you could have is that
what it means to be conservative
is to take the risks
or the potential harms
of what you're doing
really seriously and worry about that.
But another kind of
conservatism is to be like,
"Ah, you know, taking
an idea too seriously
and believing that it might succeed
is sort of like scientific arrogance."
And so I think there's like
kind of two different kinds of
conservatism or caution,
and I think we were sort of in a regime
that was very controlled by that one.
I mean, you see it historically, right?
Like if you look at the
early discussions in 1939
between, you know, people
involved in nuclear physics
about what the nuclear bombs were,
sort of a serious concern.
You see exactly the same thing
with Fermi resisting these ideas,
because it just seemed
kind of like a crazy thing.
And other people, like Szilard or Teller,
taking the ideas seriously
because they were worried about the risks.
- Yeah.
Perhaps the deepest lesson
that I've learned in the last 10 years,
and probably, you know,
all of you have learned
some form of it as well,
is there can be this kind
of seeming consensus,
these things that kind of everyone knows,
that, I don't know,
seem sort of wise, seem
like they're common sense,
but really, they're just
kind of herding behavior
masquerading as maturity
and sophistication.
- Mm-hmm.
- And when you've seen the
consensus can change overnight-
And when you've seen it
happen a number of times,
you suspected but you
didn't really bet on it
and you're like, "Oh man,
I kind of thought this,
but what do I know?"
You know, "How how can I be right
and all these people are wrong?"
You see that a few times,
then you just start saying,
"Nope, this is the bet we're gonna make.
I don't know for sure if we're right,
but like, just ignore all this
other stuff, see it happen,
and, I don't know, even if
you're right 50% of the time
being right 50% of the time
contributes so much," right?
You're adding so much
that is not being added by anyone else.
- Yeah.
- And it feels like
that's where we are today
with some safety stuff,
where there's like a consensus view that
a lot of this safety stuff is unusual
or doesn't naturally fall
out of the technology.
And then at Anthropic, we
do all of this research
where weird safety misalignment problems
fall out as a natural dividend
of the tech we're building,
so it feels like we're in that
counter-consensus view right now.
- But I feel like that has
been shifting over the past,
even just like 18-
- We've been helping to shift-
- We've definitely been helping.
- No, I mean-
- Yeah.
- By publishing and doing research.
- Constant publishing.
- This constant force.
Yeah.
- But I also think, just,
world sentiment around AI has
shifted really dramatically,
and, you know,
it's more common in the
user research that we do
to hear just customers,
regular people say,
"I'm really worried about what
the impact of AI on the world
more broadly is going to be."
And sometimes that means, you know,
jobs or bias or toxicity, but
it also sometimes means like,
is this just gonna mess
up the world, right?
How is this gonna contribute
to fundamentally changing
how humans work together, operate?
Which is, I wouldn't have
predicted that actually,
you know?
- Oh yeah.
But yeah, for whatever reason,
it seems like people in
the ML research sphere
have always been more pessimistic about
AI becoming very powerful-
- Yeah.
- Than the general public.
- Maybe it's a weird-
- General public's just like-
- Humility or something, yeah.
- When Dario and I went to
the White House in 2023,
in that meeting, like Harris
and Raimondo and stuff
basically said, I'll paraphrase,
but basically said like,
"We've got our eye on you guys.
Like, AI's gonna be a really big deal
and we're now actually paying attention,"
which is-
- And they're right.
- They're right.
- They're absolutely right.
Absolutely right.
- But I think in 2018
you wouldn't have been like,
"The President will call
you to the White House
to tell you
they're paying close attention to
the development of language models."
- Yeah.
- Which is like a crazy place-
- That was not on the bingo card.
- That was like 2018.
- One thing that I think
is interesting, too,
just is, I guess, like all
of us kind of got into this
when it didn't seem like there was-
- Mm-hmm.
- Like we thought that it
could happen, but yeah,
it was like Fermi being
skeptical of the atomic bomb.
It was like he was just a good scientist
and there was some evidence
that it could happen,
but there also was a lot of
evidence against it happening.
- Mm-hmm.
- And he, I guess, decided
that it would be worthwhile
because if it was true,
then it would be a big deal.
And I think for all of
us, it was like, yeah,
like 2015, 2016, 2017,
there was some evidence
and increasing evidence that
this might be a big deal,
but I remember in 2016, like
talking to all my advisors-
- Yeah, yeah.
- And I was like, "I've
done startup stuff.
I wanna help out with AI safety,
but I'm not great at math.
I don't exactly know
how I can do it."
And I think at the time
people either were like,
"Well, you need to be super
good at decision theory
in order to help out."
And I was like, "Eh, that's
probably not gonna work."
Or they were like,
"It doesn't really seem like
we're gonna get some crazy AI thing,"
and so I had only a few people, basically,
that were like,
"Yeah, okay, that seems
like a good thing to do."
- I remember in 2014
making graphs of ImageNet
results over time
when I was a journalist
and trying to get stories published about
and people thought I was completely mad.
And then I remember in 2015
trying to persuade Bloomberg
to let me write a story about NVIDIA,
because every AI research
paper had started mentioning
the use of GPUs,
and they said that was completely mad.
And then in 2016 when I left
journalism to go into AI,
I have these emails saying,
"You're making the worst
mistake of your life,"
which I now occasionally look back on,
but it was like it all
seemed crazy at the time,
from many perspectives,
to go and take this seriously,
that scaling was gonna work,
and something was maybe different about
the technology paradigm.
- You're like Michael
Jordan and that coach
that didn't believe in him in high school.
- How did you actually
make the decision, though?
Was it did you feel torn
or was it obvious to you?
- I did a crazy counter-bet where I said,
"Let me become your full-time AI reporter
and double my salary,"
which I knew that they
wouldn't say yes to.
And then I went to sleep and
then I woke up and resigned.
It was all fairly relaxed.
- You're just a decisive guy.
- In that instance, I was.
I think it's because I
was like going to work,
reading archive papers,
and then printing archive papers off
and coming home and
reading archive papers,
including Dario's papers
from the Baidu stuff
and being like,
"Something completely
crazy is happening here."
And at some point I thought
you should bet with conviction,
which I think everyone here
has done in their careers,
is just betting with conviction
that this is gonna work.
- Yeah.
- I definitely was not as decisive of you.
I spent, like, six months
flip flopping, like,
"Okay, should I, actually?
Should I do it?
Should I try to do a startup?
Should I try to do this thing?"
- But I also feel like back then,
there wasn't as much talk of engineers
and the impact that an engineer can have
on AI, right?
- Yeah, yeah, no way.
- That feels so natural to us now.
And we're at the same sort of talent raise
for engineers of all different types,
but at the time, it was
like, you're a researcher,
and that's the only people
that can work on AI.
- Yeah.
- So I don't think it was crazy
that you were spending
time thinking about that.
- Yeah.
Yeah, and I think that that
was basically the thing
that got me to join OpenAI,
was like I messaged the people
there and they were like,
"Yeah, we actually think
that you can help out-"
- Yeah.
- "By doing engineering work."
- "And that you can help out
with AI safety in that way."
- Mm-hmm.
- Which I think
there hadn't really been
an opportunity for that,
so that was what-
- That's right.
- Brought me there.
- You were my manager at OpenAI.
- I was, that's right.
- I think I joined after
you'd been there for a while.
- A little bit.
- 'Cause I was at Brain for a bit.
- Yeah.
- I don't know if I ever asked you
what it was that got you to join?
- Yeah, so I had been at Stripe
for about five and a half years
and I knew Greg; he had been my boss.
He was my boss at Stripe for a while,
and I actually introduced him and Dario,
because I said, when
he was starting OpenAI,
I was like, "The smartest
person that I know is Dario.
You would be really lucky to get him."
So Dario was at OpenAI,
I had a few friends from Stripe
that had gone there, too.
And I think sort of like you,
I'd been thinking about what
I wanted to do after Stripe.
I had gone there just 'cause
I wanted to get more skills
after working in, you know,
nonprofit and international development,
and I actually thought I was
gonna go back to doing that.
Like, essentially, I
had always been working.
I was like, "I really wanna
help people that have, you know,
less than I do,"
but I didn't have the skills
when I was doing it before Stripe.
- Yep.
- And so I looked at going
back to public health.
I thought about going back
into politics very briefly,
but I was also looking around
at other tech companies
and other sort of ways of having impact,
and OpenAI, at the time,
felt like it was a
really nice intersection.
It was a nonprofit,
they were working on this
really big, lofty mission.
I really believed in sort of
the AI, you know, potential,
because, I mean, I know
Dario a little bit,
and so he was-
- And they needed management help.
- The definitely needed help.
That is a fact.
And so I think that it
felt very me-shaped, right?
I was like, "Oh, there's this nonprofit
and there's all these really great people
with these really good intentions,
but it seems like they're
a little bit of a mess."
- Yeah.
And that felt really exciting to me,
to get to come in and even, you know,
just I was such a utility player, right?
I was running people,
but I was also running some
of the technical teams-
- Scaling orgs, yep.
- Yeah, the scaling org,
I worked on the language team,
I took over-
- You worked on policy-
- I worked on some policy stuff,
I worked with Chris,
and I felt like there
was just so much goodness
in so many of the employees there,
and I felt a very strong desire to come
and sort of just try to
help make the company
a little more functional.
- I remember towards the
end, after we'd done GPT-3,
you were like,
"Have you guys heard of something
called trust and safety?"
- Yes, I remember that!
That did happen.
- Yeah.
- I said, you know,
"I used to run some trust
and safety teams at Stripe.
There's a thing called trust and safety
that you might wanna consider
for a technology like this."
And it's funny because it's
sort of is the intermediary step
between, you know, AI
safety research, right,
which is how do you
actually make the model safe
to something just much more practical.
I do think there was a
value in saying, you know,
this is gonna be a big thing;
we also have to be doing
this sort of practical work
day to day to build the muscles
for when things are gonna
be a lot higher stakes.
- That might be a good transition point
to talk about things like the
responsible scaling policy
and how we came up with that,
or why we came up with it
and how we're using it now,
especially given how much
trust and safety work
we do on today's models.
So whose idea was the RSP?
Was you and Paul?
- So, yeah,
it was me and Paul first
talked about it in late,
Paul Christiano, in late 2022.
- Mm-hmm.
- First it was like, oh,
should we cap scaling at a,
you know, particular point
until we've discovered how to
solve certain safety problems?
And then it was like, well, you know,
it's kind of strange
to have this one place
where you cap it and then you uncap it,
so let's have a bunch of thresholds,
and then at each threshold
you have to do certain tests
to see if the model is capable
and you have to take
increasing safety and security measures.
But originally we had this idea,
and then the thought
was just look, you know,
this'll go better if it's
done by some third party.
Like, we shouldn't be
the ones to do it, right?
It shouldn't come from one company,
'cause then other companies
are less likely to adopt it.
So Paul actually went off and designed it,
and, you know, many, many
features of it changed
and we were kind of, on our side,
working on how it should work.
And, you know, once Paul
had something together,
then pretty much immediately
after he announced the concept,
we announced ours within a month or two.
I mean, many of us were
heavily involved in it.
I remember writing at least
one draft of it myself,
but there were several drafts of it.
- There were so many drafts.
- I think it's gone through
the most drafts of any doc.
- Yeah.
- Which makes sense, right?
It's like, I feel like it is
in the same way that the US
treats like the Constitution,
as like the holy document.
- Yeah.
- Which like,
I think is just a big thing
that like strengthens the US.
- Yes.
- And like we don't expect
the US to go off the rails,
in part, because just like
every single person in the US
is like, "The Constitution is a big deal,
and if you tread on that-"
- Yeah.
- "Like, I'm mad."
- Yeah, yeah.
- Like I think that the RSP is our,
like, it holds that thing.
It's like the holy document for Anthropic.
So it's worth doing a lot of
iterations getting it right.
- Some of what I think
has been so cool to watch
about the RSP development
at Anthropic, too,
is it feels like it has gone through
so many different phases
and there's so many different skills
that are needed to make it work, right?
There's like the big ideas,
which I feel like Dario
and Paul and Sam and Jared
and so many others are like,
"What are the principles?
Like what are we trying to say?
How do we know if we're right?"
But there's also this
very operational approach
to just iterating
where we're like, "Well, we thought that
we were gonna see this at
this, you know, safety level,
and we didn't,
so should we change it so
that we're making sure that
we're holding ourselves accountable?"
And then there's all kinds of
organizational things, right?
We just were like,
"Let's change the structure
of the RSP organization
for clearer accountability."
And I think my sense
is that for a document
that's as important as this, right,
I love the Constitution analogy,
it's like there's all of
these bodies and systems
that exist in the US
to make sure that we follow
the Constitution, right?
There's the courts,
there's the Supreme Court,
there's the presidency,
there's, you know, both houses of Congress
and they do all kinds of
other things, of course,
but there's like all of this
infrastructure that you need
around this one document,
and I feel like we're also
learning that lesson here.
- I think it sort of reflects a view
a lot of us have about safety,
which is that it's a solvable problem.
- Mm-hmm.
- It's just a very, very hard problem
that's gonna take tons and tons of work.
- Mm-hmm.
- Yeah.
- All of these institutions
that we need to build up,
like there's all sorts of
institutions built up around
like automotive safety, built
up over many, many years.
But we're like, "Do we
have the time to do that?
We've gotta go as fast
as we can to figure out
what the institutions we
need for AI safety are,
and build those and try
to build them here first,
but make it exportable."
- That's right.
- It it forces unity also,
because if any part of the org
is not kind of in line
with our safety values,
it shows up through
kind of the RSP, right?
The RSP is gonna block them
from doing what they want to do,
and so it's a way to remind
everyone over and over again,
basically, to make safety
a product requirement,
part of the product planning process.
And so, like, it's not just
a bunch of kind of like
bromides that we repeat;
it's something that you actually,
if you show up here
and you're not aligned,
you actually run into it.
- Yeah.
- And you either have to
learn to get with the program
or it doesn't work out.
- Yeah.
- The RSPs become kind of funny over time
because we spend thousands
of hours of work on it,
and then I go and talk to
senators and I explain the RSP,
and I'm like, "We have some stuff
that means it's hard
to steal what we make,
and also that it's safe."
And they're like,
"Yes, that's a completely
normal thing to do.
Are you telling me not
everyone does this?"
You're like, "Oh, okay, yeah."
Yeah.
- It's half true that that
not everyone does this.
- Yeah.
- But that kind of,
it's amazing because we've
spent so much effort on it here
and when you boil it down, they're like,
"Yes, that sounds like a normal way
to do that."
- Yeah, that sounds good.
- That's been the goal.
Like Daniela was saying,
"Let's make this as boring and normal.
Like let's make this a finance thing."
- Yeah, imagine it's like an audit.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Right?
Yeah.
- No, boring and normal
is what we want,
certainly in retrospect.
- Yeah.
Well also, Dario,
I think in addition to driving alignment,
it also drives clarity-
- Mm-hmm.
- Because it's written down
what we're trying to do
and it's legible to
everyone in the company,
and it's legible externally
what we think we're supposed
to be aiming towards
from a safety perspective.
It's not perfect.
We're iterating on it,
we're making it better,
but I think there's some
value in saying like,
"This is what we're worried
about, this thing over here."
Like you can't just use
this word to sort of
derail something in
either direction, right?
To say, "Oh, because of
safety, we can't do X,
or because of safety, we have to do X."
We're really trying to make
it clearer what we mean.
- Yeah, it prevents
you from worrying about
every last little thing under the sun.
- That's right.
- Because it's actually the fire drills
that damage the cause of
safety in the long run.
- Right.
- I've said like, "If there's a building,
and, you know, the fire
alarm goes off every week,
like, that's a really unsafe building."
- Mm-hmm.
- 'Cause when there's
like actually a fire,
you're just gonna be like-
- No ones gonna care.
- "Oh, it just goes off all the time."
So-
- Yeah.
- It's very important to be calibrated.
- That's right.
- Yeah.
A slightly different frame
that I find kind of clarifying
is that I think that RSP
creates healthy incentives
at a lot of levels.
- Mm.
- So I think internally it aligns
the incentives of every team with safety
because it means that if we
don't make progress on safety,
we're gonna block.
I also think that externally
it creates a lot of healthier incentives
than other possibilities,
at least that I see,
because it means that, you
know, if we at some point
have to take some kind of dramatic action,
like, if at some point we have to say,
"You know, our model,
we've reached some point
and we can't yet make a model safe,"
it aligns that with
sort of the point where
there's evidence that
supports that decision
and there's sort of a
preexisting framework
for thinking about it, and it's legible.
And so I think there's a lot
of levels at which the RSP,
I think in ways that maybe I
didn't initially understand
when we were talking about
the early versions of it,
it creates a better framework
than any of the other ones
that I've thought about.
- I think this is all true,
but I feel like it undersells sort of like
how challenging it's been
to sort of figure out
what the right policies and evaluations
and what the lines should be.
I think that we have and continue to
sort of iterate a lot on that,
and I think there is a
question also that's difficult
of sort of you could be at a point where
it's very clear something's dangerous
or very clear that something's safe,
but with some technology that's so new,
there's actually like a big gray area.
And so I think that has been, like,
all the things that we're saying
were things that made me
really, really excited about
the RSP at the beginning,
and still do,
but also I think enacting this
in a clear way and making it work
has been much harder and more complicated
than I anticipated.
- Yeah, I think this is exactly the point.
Like-
- Yeah.
- Like the gray areas are
impossible to predict.
There's so many of them.
Like, until you actually
try to implement everything,
you don't know what's going to go wrong.
So what we're trying to do is
go and implement everything
so we can see as early as
possible what's going to go wrong,
so-
- Yeah, you have to-
- The gray areas are-
- You have to do three
or four passes before-
- Yeah.
- Before you really, really get it right.
Like, iteration is just
very powerful and, you know,
you're not gonna get it
right on the first time.
And so, you know, if the
stakes are increasing,
you want to get your iterations in early;
you don't want to get them in late.
- You're also building
the internal institutions and processes,
so the specifics might change a lot,
but building the muscle of just doing it
is the really valuable thing.
- I'm responsible for, like,
compute at Anthropic, and so-
- That's important.
- So, thank you.
I think so.
So like for me,
like I guess we have to
deal with external folks-
- Yeah.
- And different external folks
kind of are on different
spectrums of the, like,
how fast do they think stuff is gonna get?
- Mm-hmm.
- And like,
I think that's also been a thing,
where I started out
like not thinking stuff
would be that fast and
have changed over time.
And so, I have sympathy for that.
And so I think the RSP has
been extremely useful for me
in communicating with people
who think that things might take longer
because then we have a
thing where it's like,
we don't need to do
extreme safety measures
until stuff gets really intense,
and then they might be like,
"I don't think stuff will
get intense for a long time."
And then I'll be like,
"Okay, yeah, we don't have to
do extreme safety measures."
And so that makes it a lot easier
to communicate with
other folks externally.
- Yeah, yeah, it makes it like
a normal thing you can talk about,
rather than something really strange.
- Yeah.
How else is it showing up for people?
You are-
- Evals, evals, evals.
- Good.
- It's all about evals.
Everyone's doing evals.
Like, your training team is
doing evals all the time.
We're trying to figure out, like,
has this model gotten enough better
that it has the potential to be dangerous?
So how many teams do we
have that are evals teams?
You have Frontier Red Team.
There must be, I mean
there's a lot of people-
- Every team produces evals, basically.
- And that means you're just
measuring against the RSP,
like measuring for certain signs of
things that would concern
you or not concern you.
- Exactly.
Like it's easy to lower bound
the abilities of a model,
but it's hard to upper bound,
so we just put tons and
tons of research effort
into saying, like,
"Can this model do this
dangerous thing or not?
Maybe there's some trick
that we haven't thought of,
like chain of thought or best event
or some kind of tool
use that's gonna make it
so it can help you do
something very dangerous."
- It's been really useful in policy,
because it's been a
really abstract concept,
what safety is,
and when I'm like, "We have an eval
which changes whether we
deploy the model or not,"
and then you can go and calibrate with
policymakers or experts
in national security
or some of these CBRN areas that we do,
to actually help us build
evals that are well-calibrated
and that, counter-factually,
just wouldn't have happened otherwise,
but once you've got the specific thing,
people are a lot more motivated
to help you make it accurate,
so it's been useful for that.
How has it shown up for-
- The RSP shows up for me,
for sure.
Often.
I actually think, weirdly,
the way that I think about
the RSP the most is like
what it sounds like-
- Mm-hmm?
- Just like the tone.
I think we just did a big
rewrite of the tone of the RSP
because it felt overly technocratic,
and even a little bit adversarial.
I spent a lot of time thinking about like,
how do you build a system
that people just wanna be a part of?
- Mm-hmm.
- Right?
It's so much better if
the RSP is something
that everyone in the company
can walk around and tell you,
you know, just like with OKRs
like we do right now-
- Yeah.
- Like, what are the top goals of the RSP?
How do we know if we're meeting them?
What AI safety level are we at right now?
Are we at ASL-2?
Are we at ASL-3?
That people know what to look for
because that is how you're going to have
good, common knowledge of
if something's going wrong,
right?
If it's overly technocratic,
and it's something that
only particular people in the company
feel is accessible to them,
it's just like not as productive, right?
And I think it's been really cool
to watch it sort of
transition into this document
where I actually think most,
if not everybody at the company,
regardless of their role,
could read it and say, "This
feels really reasonable.
I wanna make sure that we're building AI
in the following ways,
and I see why I would be
worried about these things,
and I also kind of know what to look for
if I bump into something," right?
It's almost like make it simple enough
that if you are working
at a manufacturing plant
and you're like,
"Huh, it looks like the
safety seatbelt on this
should connect this way,
but it doesn't connect,"
that you can spot it.
- Mm-hmm.
- And that there's just
like healthy feedback flow
between leadership and the board
and the rest of the company
and the people that are
actually building it,
because I actually think the
way this stuff goes wrong
in most cases is just, like,
the wires don't connect
or like they get crossed,
and that would just be like
a really sad way for
things to go wrong, right?
It's just all about operationalizing it,
making it easy for people to understand.
- Yeah, the thing I would say is
none of us wanted to found a company.
We just felt like it was our duty, right?
- It felt like we had to.
- Like, we have to do this thing.
This is the way we're gonna
make things go better with AI.
Like that's also why we
did the pledge, right?
- Yeah.
- Because we're like
the reason we're doing this
is it feels like our duty.
- I wanted to invent and discover things
in some kind of beneficial way.
That was how I came to it,
and that led to working on AI,
and AI required a lot of engineering
and eventually AI
required a lot of capital,
but what I found was that
if you don't do this in a way where
you're setting the environment,
where you set up the company,
then a lot of it gets done,
a lot of it repeats the same mistakes
that I found so alienating
about the tech community.
It's the same people,
it's the same attitude,
it's the same pattern-matching,
And so at some point it
just seemed inevitable
that we need to do it in a different way.
- When we were hanging
out in graduate school,
I remember you had kind
of this whole program
of trying to figure out how to do science
in a way that would sort
of advance the public good.
And I think that's pretty similar to
how we we think about this.
I think you had this like
Project Vannevar or something,
to do that.
I was a professor.
I think basically I just
looked at the situation
and I was convinced that AI
was on a very, very, very steep trajectory
in terms of impact,
didn't seem like because of
the necessity for capital,
and as a physics professor,
I could continue doing that
and I kind of wanted to work
with people that I trusted
in building an institution
to try to make AI go well.
But yeah, I would never
recommend founding a company.
Or really want to do it.
I mean, yeah, I think it's
just a means to an end.
I mean,
I think that's like usually
how things go well, though.
If you're doing something
just to sort of like
enrich yourself or gain power or, like,
you have to sort of actually care about
accomplishing a real goal in the world
and then you find whatever
means you have to.
- Well, something I think about a lot
as just a strategic advantage for us is,
I mean, it sounds really funny to say,
but just like how much trust
there is at this table,
right?
- Mm-hmm.
- Like I think that's not, I mean,
Tom, you were at other startups.
I was never a founder before,
but it's actually really
hard to get a group of,
like, a big group of people,
to have like the same mission.
Right?
And I think the thing that I
feel like the happiest about
when I come into work,
and probably the most
proud of at Anthropic,
is how well that has
scaled to a lot of people.
It feels to me like in this group
and with the rest of leadership,
everyone is here for the mission,
and our mission is really clear-
- Yep.
- And it's very pure, right?
And I think that is something
that I don't see as often,
to Dario's point, in sort
of the tech industry.
It feels like there's just a wholesomeness
to what we're trying to do.
Like, no, I agree, none of us were like,
"Let's just go found a company!"
I felt like we had to do it, right?
It just felt like
we couldn't keep doing what we were doing
at the place we were doing it.
We had to do it by ourselves.
- And it felt like with GPT-3,
you know, which all of us had
like touched or worked on,
and scaling laws and everything else,
we could see it in front of us in 2020.
And it felt like, well,
if we don't do something
soon, all together,
you're gonna hit the point of no return.
And you have to do something
to have any ability to
change the environment.
- Mm-hmm.
- I think, building off Daniela,
I do think that there's
just like a lot of trust-
- Mm-hmm.
- In this group.
I think each of us knows
that we got into this
because we wanna help out with the world.
- Yeah.
- We did the the 80% pledge thing,
and that was like a thing
that everybody was just like,
"Yes, obviously we're gonna do this."
- Mm-hmm.
- Yeah, yeah.
- And yeah, I do think
that the trust thing
is a special thing that's extremely rare.
- Yeah.
- I credit Daniela with
keeping the bar high.
I credit you with the fact-
- Keeping out the clowns.
Keeping out the clowns.
- Chief clown wrangler!
That's my job.
- No, but you're the reason
the culture scaled, I think.
- Yeah.
People say how nice people are here.
- Which is actually a
wildly important thing.
- I think Anthropic is
really low politics,
and of course,
we all have a different
vantage point than average,
and I try to remember that.
- It's because of low ego.
- But it's low ego,
and I think I do think
our interview process
and just the type of people who work here,
like, there's almost a like
allergic reaction to politics.
- And unity.
- Mm-hmm.
- Unity is so important.
The idea that the product
team, the research team-
- Yes.
- The trust and safety team,
you know, the go-to market
team, the policy team-
- Yeah.
- Like, the safety folks,
they're all trying to contribute
to kind of the same goal,
the same mission of the company,
right?
- Yes.
- I think it's dysfunctional when
different parts of the company
think they're trying to
accomplish different things-
- Yeah.
- Think the company's
about different things
or think that other parts of the company
are trying to undermine
what they're doing.
- Yeah.
- And I think the most important thing
we've managed to preserve is,
and again, things like the RSP drive it,
this idea that it's not, you know,
there's some parts of the
company causing damage
and other parts of the
company trying to repair it,
but that there are different
parts of the company
doing different functions
and that they all function
under a single theory of change.
- Extreme pragmatism, right?
- Yeah.
- You know, the reason I went
to OpenAI in the first place,
you know, it was a nonprofit,
it was a place where I could
go and focus on safety,
and I think over time, you know,
that maybe wasn't as good a fit
and there were some difficult decisions.
And I think, in a lot of ways,
I really trusted Dario
and Daniela on that,
but I didn't want to leave.
That was something that
I think I was actually
pretty reluctant to go along with,
because I think, for one thing,
I didn't know that it
was good for the world
to have more AI labs.
And I think it was something that
I was pretty, pretty reluctant for.
And I think, as well, when we did leave,
I think I was, you know, I was
reluctant to start a company.
I think I was arguing for a long time
that we should do a nonprofit instead,
and just focus on safety research.
- Yes.
- And I think it really took pragmatism
and confronting the constraints
and just being honest about
what the constraints implied
for accomplishing that mission-
- Mm-hmm.
- That led to Anthropic.
- I think just a really important lesson
that we were good about early on
is make less promises
and keep more of them.
- Yeah.
- Right?
- Like, try to be
calibrated, be realistic,
confront the trade-offs,
because, you know,
trust and credibility
are more important than
any particular policy.
- Yeah.
- It is so unusual to have what we have,
and watching Mike Krieger
defend safety things,
of like reasons why we
shouldn't ship a product yet,
but also then to watch
Vinay sort of say like,
"Okay, we have to do the
right thing for the business.
Like how do we get this
across the finish line?"
- Mm-hmm, yep.
- And to hear, you know,
people like deep in the
technical safety org
talking about how it's also
important that we build things
that are practical for people,
and hearing, you know,
engineers on inference talk about safety.
That's amazing.
Like, I think that is, again,
one of the most special
things about working here,
is everybody with that unity
is prioritizing the pragmatism,
the safety, the business.
That's wild.
- The safest move-
- I think about it as-
- Yeah.
- Spreading the trade-offs-
- From just the leadership
of the company to everyone,
right?
- Yeah.
- I think the dysfunctional world is like,
you have a bunch of people
who only see a big, you know,
safety is like, "We
always have to do this,"
and product is like, "We
and research is like, you know,
"This is the only thing we care about."
And then you're stuck at the top,
right?
- Yeah.
- You're stuck at the top.
You have to decide between
you don't have as much
information as either of them.
That's the dysfunctional world.
The functional world is when
you're able to communicate to everyone,
"There are these trade-offs
we're all facing together."
- Yeah.
- The world is a far from perfect place.
There's just trade-offs.
Everything you do is gonna be suboptimal.
Everything you do is gonna be
some attempt to get the best
of both worlds that, you know,
doesn't work out as well
as you thought it was,
and everyone is on the same page about
confronting those trade-offs together,
and they just feel like
they're confronting them
from a particular post.
- Mm-hmm.
- From a particular job, as
part of the overall job of
confronting all the trade-offs.
- It's a bet on race to the top, right?
- It's a bet on race to the top, yeah.
- Like it's not a pure upside bet.
Things could go wrong, but-
- Yeah.
- Like,
we're all aligned on like,
"This is the bet that we're making."
- And markets are pragmatic,
so if the more successful
Anthropic becomes as a company,
the more incentive there
is for people to copy
the things that make us successful.
And the more that success is tied to
actual safety stuff we do,
the more it just creates
a gravitational force in the industry
that will actually get the
rest of industry to compete.
And it's like, "Sure,
we'll build seat belts
and everyone else can copy them."
That's good.
Yeah.
- That's like good world.
- That's really good.
- Yeah.
This is the race to the top, right?
But if you're saying,
"Well, we're not gonna
build the technology,
you're not gonna build it
better than someone else,"
that in the end,
that just doesn't work
because you're not proving
that it's possible to
get from here to there.
- Mm-hmm.
- Where the world needs to get,
nevermind the industry,
nevermind one company,
is it needs to get us
successfully through from
this technology does-doesn't exist
to the technology exists
in a very powerful way
and society has actually managed it.
And I think the only
way that's gonna happen
is that if you have, at the
level of a single company,
and eventually at the
level of the industry,
you're actually confronting
those trade-offs.
You have to find a way to
actually be competitive,
to actually lead the
industry, in some cases,
and yet manage to do things safely.
And if you can do that,
the gravitational pull
you exert is so great.
There's so many factors,
from the regulatory environment,
to the kinds of people who
wanna work at different places,
to, even sometimes,
the views of customers-
- Yeah.
- That kind of drive in the direction of
if you can show that you
can do well on safety
without sacrificing
competitiveness, right,
if you can find these kind of win-wins,
then others are incentivized
to do the same thing.
- Yeah, I mean I think that's why
getting things like the
RSP right is so important,
because I think that we ourselves,
seeing where the technology
is headed, have often thought,
"Oh wow, we need to be really
careful of this thing,"
but at the same time we
have to be even more careful
not to be crying wolf,
saying that like, "Innovation
needs to stop here."
We need to sort of find a way
to make AI useful, innovative,
delightful for customers,
but also figure out what the
constraints really have to be
that we can stand behind,
that makes systems safe,
so that it's possible
for others to think that
they can do that too,
and they can succeed,
they can compete with us.
- We're not doomers, right?
Like, we wanna build the positive thing.
- Yeah.
- We wanna like build the good thing.
- And we've seen it happen in practice.
A few months after we
came out with our RSP,
the three most prominent AI
companies had one, right?
Interpretability research,
that's another area we've done it.
Just the focus on safety overall,
like collaboration with
the AI safety institutes,
other areas.
- Yeah, the Frontier Red Team
got cloned almost immediately,
which is good.
You want all the labs
to be testing for like,
very, very security-scary risks.
- Export the seat belts.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Mm-hmm,
export the seat belts.
Well, Jack also mentioned it earlier,
but customers also really
care about safety, right?
Customers don't want models
that are hallucinating.
They don't want models
that are easy to jailbreak.
They want models that
are helpful and harmless,
right?
- Yeah.
- And so a lot of the time,
what we hear in customer calls is just,
"We're going with Claude
because we know it's safer."
I think that is also a
huge market impact, right,
because our ability to have models
that are trustworthy and reliable,
that matters for the market pressure
that it puts on competitors, too.
- Maybe to unpack
something that Dario said
a little bit more,
I think there's this
narrative or this idea
that maybe the virtuous thing
is to almost like nobly fail, right?
It's like you should go
and like put safety,
you should go and put things,
you should sort of demonstrate
like in an impragmatic way
so that you can sort of demonstrate
your purity to the cause
or something like this.
And I think if you do that,
it's actually very self-defeating.
For one thing, it means that
you're gonna have the
people who are are deciding,
making decisions,
be self-selected for being
people who don't care,
and for people who aren't
prioritizing safety
and who don't care about it.
And I think, on the other hand,
if you try really hard to find the way
to align the incentives
and make it so that if
there are hard decisions,
they happen at the points where
there is the most force to go and support
making the correct hard decisions,
and where there's the most evidence,
then you can sort of start to
trigger this race to the top
that Dario is describing,
where instead of going
and having, you know,
the people who care get
pushed out of influence,
you instead pull other people
to have to go and follow.
- So what are you all excited about
when it comes to the next
things we'll be working on?
- Well, I think there's a bunch of reasons
you can be excited about interpretability.
One is obviously safety,
but there's another one
that I think I find,
at an emotional level, you know,
equally exciting or
equally meaningful to me,
which is just that I think
neural networks are beautiful
and I think that there's
a lot of beauty in them
that we don't see.
We treat them like these black boxes that
we're not particularly
interested in the internal stuff,
but when you start to
go and look inside them,
they're just full of
amazing, beautiful structure.
You know, it's sort of like
if people looked at biology
and they were like, "You know,
evolution is really boring.
It's just a simple thing that
goes and runs for a long time,
and then it makes animals,"
and like, instead,
it's like, actually, you know,
each one of those animals
that evolution produces,
and I think that, you know,
it's an optimization process,
like training a neural network.
You know,
they're full of incredible
complexity and structure,
and we have an entire
sort of artificial biology
inside of neural networks.
If you're just willing
to look inside them,
there's all of this amazing stuff.
And I think that we're just
starting to slowly unpack it,
and it's incredible, and
there's so much there,
but there's just so much
we discovered there.
We're just starting to crack it open
and I think it's gonna
be amazing and beautiful.
And sometimes I imagine, you know,
like a decade in the future,
walking into a bookstore
and buying, you know,
the textbook on neural
network interpretability
or really, like, on the
biology of neural networks,
and just the kind of wild things
that are gonna be inside of it.
And I think that in the next decade,
in the next couple of years even,
we're gonna go and start to go in
and really discover all of those things.
And it's gonna be wild and incredible.
- It's also gonna be great
that you get to buy your own textbook.
- Just have your face on it.
- I mean, yeah.
- I'm excited that a few years
ago if you had said like,
"Governments will set up new bodies
to test and evaluate AI systems
and they will actually
be competent and good,"
you would've not thought that
was going to be the case.
But it's happened,
it's kind of like governments have built
these new embassies, almost,
to deal with this new kind
of class of technology
or, like, thing that Chris studies.
And I'm just very excited
to see where that goes.
I think it actually means
that we have state capacity
to deal with this kind
of societal transition,
so it's not just companies.
And I'm excited to help with that.
- I'm already excited
about this to, you know,
to a certain extent today,
but I think just
imagining the future world
of what AI is going to
be able to do for people
is it's impossible to not
feel excited about that.
Dario talks about this a lot,
but I think even just
the sort of glimmers of
Claude being able to help with, you know,
vaccine development and cancer research
and biological research
is crazy, like, just to be able
to watch what it can do now,
but when I fast forward, you know,
three years in the future
or five years in the future,
imagining that Claude could actually solve
so many of the fundamental problems
that we just face as humans.
Even just from a health perspective alone,
even if you sort of take
everything else out,
feels really exciting to me,
just like thinking back to
my international development times.
It would be amazing if
Claude was responsible for
helping to do a lot of the
work that I was trying to do
a lot less effectively
when I was, like, 25.
- I mean, I guess similarly,
I'm excited to build Claude for work.
Like, I'm excited to build
Claude into the company
and into companies all over the world.
- I guess I'm excited just
for, I guess like, personally,
like I like using Claude a lot
at work,
and so like, definitely,
there's been increasing
amounts of like home times
with like me just like chatting
with Claude about stuff.
I think the biggest recent
thing has been code-
- Mm-hmm.
- Where like six months ago,
I didn't use Claude to do any coding work.
Like,
our teams didn't really use
Claude that much for coding,
and now it's like just phase difference.
Like, I gave a talk at
YCU like week before last,
and at the beginning I just asked like,
"Okay, so how many folks here
use Claude for coding now?"
And literally 95% of hands-
- Wow.
- Like, all the hands in the room,
which just is totally
different than how it was
four months ago or whatever.
- Mm-hmm.
- Yeah.
- So when I think about
what I'm excited about,
I think about places where,
you know, like I said before,
where there's this kind
of consensus that, again,
seems like consensus,
seems like what everyone wise thinks,
and then it just kind of breaks,
and so places where I think
that's about to happen
and it hasn't happened yet.
One of them is interpretability.
I think interpretability
is both the key to
steering and making safe AI systems,
and we're about to understand,
and interpretability
contains insights about
intelligent optimization problems
and about how the human brain works.
I've said, and I'm really not joking,
Chris Olah is gonna be a
future Nobel Medicine Laureate.
- Aw, yeah.
- I'm serious.
I'm serious,
because a lot of these,
I used to be a neuroscientist,
a lot of these mental illnesses,
the ones we haven't figured out, right,
schizophrenia or the mood disorders,
I suspect there's some higher
level system thing going on
and that it's hard to make
sense of those with brains
because brains are so mushy
and hard to open up and interact with.
Neural nets are not like this;
they're not a perfect analogy,
but as time goes on, they
will be a better analogy.
That's one area.
Second is, related to that,
I think just the use of AI for biology.
Biology is an incredibly
difficult problem.
People continue to be skeptical,
for a number of reasons.
I think that consensus
is starting to break.
We saw a Nobel Prize in chemistry
awarded for AlphaFold;
remarkable accomplishment.
We should be trying to build things
that can help us create
a hundred AlphaFolds.
And then finally, using
AI to enhance democracy.
We worry about if AI is
built in the wrong way,
it can be a tool for authoritarianism.
How can AI be a tool for
freedom and self-determination?
I think that one is
earlier than the other two,
but it's gonna be just as important.
- Yeah, I mean, I guess two things that
at least connect to what
you were saying earlier,
I mean, one is I feel like
people frequently join Anthropic
because they're sort of
scientifically really curious about AI
and then kind of get
convinced by AI progress
to sort of share the vision of the need,
not just to advance the technology,
but to understand it more deeply
and to make sure that it's safe.
And I feel like it's actually
just sort of exciting
to have people that you're working with
kind of more and more
united in their vision
for both what AI development looks like
and the sort of sense of
responsibility associated with it.
And I feel like that's
been happening a lot
due to a lot of advances
that have happened in the last year,
like what Tom talked about.
Another is that, I mean,
going back really to concrete problems,
I feel like we've done a
lot of work on AI safety
up until this point.
A lot of it's really important,
but I think we're now, with
some recent developments,
really getting a glimmer
of what kinds of risks
might literally come about from systems
that are very, very advanced-
- Mm-hmm.
- So that we can
investigate and study them
directly with interpretability,
with other kinds of safety mechanisms,
and really understand what the risks from
very advanced AI might look like.
And I think that that's something that is
really gonna allow us to
sort of further the mission
in a really deeply
scientific, empirical way.
And so I'm excited about sort
of the next six months of
how we use our understanding of
what can go wrong with advanced
systems to characterize that
and figure out how to
avoid those pitfalls.
- Perfect.
Fin!
- Yay!
- We did it!
- Woo!
- Good time.
- I know.
We gotta do this more often.